Add 2023-content-blocking-for-the-ipfs-stack.md (#561)
ipfs/ipfs-blog: src/_blog/2023-content-blocking-for-the-ipfs-stack.md

---
title: Content Blocking for the IPFS stack

> description: 'We’re excited to share that content blocking can now be enabled in Kubo and other tools based on the Go-IPFS stack.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: 'We’re excited to share that content blocking can now be enabled in Kubo and other tools in the IPFS stack.'
```
remove legacy reference to go-ipfs

author: 
date: 2023-04-28
permalink: '/2023-content-blocking-for-the-ipfs-stack/'
header_image: '/ipfsnews.png'
tags:
  - 'go-ipfs'
  - 'kubo'
  - 'badbits'
  - 'content-blocking'
  - 'content-moderation'
---

> Bifrost (the NetOps team responsible for the IPFS.io HTTP gateways) is happy to announce that content blocking can now be enabled in Kubo and other tools based on the Go-IPFS stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bifrost (the NetOps team responsible for the IPFS.io HTTP gateways) is happy to announce that content blocking can now be enabled in Kubo and other tools in the IPFS stack.
```
remove legacy reference to go-ipfs

> Traditionally, content blocking has been performed only at the IPFS gateway level and directly in Nginx, using the original Badbits denylist (https://badbits.dwebops.pub/denylist.json). This had a few issues: content on the denylist was not blocked on Kubo and was still available via Bitswap. Additionally, the blocks affected concrete CID strings, but not equivalent ones (i.e. with a different base encoding).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Traditionally, content blocking has been performed only at the IPFS gateway level and directly in Nginx, using the original Badbits denylist (https://badbits.dwebops.pub/denylist.json). This had a few issues: content on the denylist was not blocked on Kubo and was still available via Bitswap. Additionally, blocking affected concrete CID strings, but not equivalent ones (i.e. with a different base encoding).
```
slight word change to avoid potential confusion with blockchain blocks, dag blocks, etc.

 - Implemented NOpfs (https://github.com/ipfs-shipyard/nopfs), a Blocker that understands the new compact denylist format and decides whether any CID or IPFS Path should be blocked or not. This Blocker implementation provides, additionally, a Kubo plugin so that Kubo becomes automatically augmented with native content-blocking capabilities, so that Kubo will never download blocked content. The Blocker implementation can be used separately from Kubo as well, for example by setting a Web service that returns whether an IPFS path or URL should be blocked or not (upcoming work from our side). This can also be useful for Filecoin Storage providers and anyone that wants to make sure their CIDs have not been included in a denylist.

In the meantime, we have also converted our existing denylist to the new format so that everyone can take advantage of these changes right away: https://badbits.dwebops.pub/badbits.deny

> This work is the framing for a larger endeavour to improve content moderation on our networks, working closely with the legal team and other operators. If you have any questions or need help, please reach out! And if you’d like to help further this initiative, you can start by sharing this news with your colleagues, and also letting the Kubo maintainers, the IPFS Stewards team, know that you’d like to see this functionality integrated into Kubo as a first class citizen. Beyond that, please get in touch if you’d like to collaborate on this initiative with us.

Reviewer: Love the invitation to participate! A few notes to help invite the broader community in:
- "please reach out" and "please get in touch" should have a method for interested people to do this — email? forum link? other?
- minor nit: consider "sharing this news with your colleagues" --> "with your community" since some groups doing this aren't formally colleagues
- "also letting the Kubo maintainers, the IPFS Stewards team, know that you’d like to see this functionality integrated into Kubo" - this phrase has some PL insider baseball. (a) probably remove the "IPFS Stewards team" since that's a PL-specific org name and goes against the recent tide of opening IPFS impls etc and (b) provide a method to let the kubo maintainers know — issue? email? forum post?

> This work is the framing for a larger endeavour to improve content moderation on our networks, working closely with the legal team and other operators. If you have any questions or need help, please reach out! And if you’d like to help further this initiative, you can start by sharing this news with your colleagues, and also letting the Kubo maintainers, the IPFS Stewards team, know that you’d like to see this functionality integrated into Kubo as a first class citizen. Beyond that, please get in touch if you’d like to collaborate on this initiative with us.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This work is the framing for a larger endeavour to improve content moderation on the IPFS public networks. If you have any questions or need help, please reach out! And if you’d like to help further this initiative, you can start by sharing this news with your colleagues, and also letting the Kubo maintainers, the IPFS Stewards team, know that you’d like to see this functionality integrated into Kubo as a first class citizen. Beyond that, please get in touch if you’d like to collaborate on this initiative with us.
```
change reference to "our" network

> And last of all, it would be remiss of us if we didn’t thank Hector (Sanjuan) for all the hard work he put into this. Thank you for all your efforts, it’s greatly appreciated!

Reviewer: Consider tagging https://github.com/hsanjuan or https://twitter.com/hecturchi
